5
G
2
s the master of a guild
of jewelers, you create
majestic adornments of
the highest quality for monarchs
and other powerful leaders of
the Renaissance to increase your
prestige and fortune. However,
you have an ambitious rival, and
it’s time to show your worth!
SETUP
CONTENTS
A 1 Victory tile
B 67 Jewel cards divided
into 3 levels (  ;  ; )
C 1 Bag
D 3 Privilege scrolls
E 25 Tokens: 4 in each of the 5
gem colors (blue, white, green,
black, and red), 2 Pearls, and
3 Gold
F 1 Board
G 4 Royal cards
Follow these steps in order:
1 Shuffle the 3 decks of Jewel cards separately,
then place them in a column, with the deck
of level 1 cards at the bottom.
2 Reveal: 3 level-3 cards ( ),
4 level-2 cards ( ),
5 level-1 cards ( ) to form a pyramid
below the Victory tile.
3 Place the board below this pyramid and
randomly place the 25 tokens on it, starting
with the central space and following
the printed spiral.
4 Place the 3 Privilege scrolls above the board.
5 Place the 4 Royal cards below the board.
6 Choose the first player randomly.
Their opponent takes 1 Privilege
and places it in front of themself.
1
2
4
B A C
D
F
E
3
3
4
The players take turns, one after another, until the end of the game is triggered.
On your turn, you take tokens from the board or use those in your possession to buy Jewel
cards, which award you with the Prestige points and Crowns you require to win. These
cards also offer special abilities and bonuses, which reduce the cost of acquiring future
Jewel cards.
To win, you must fulfill one of the three conditions indicated on the Victory tile.
On your turn, you first perform none, one, or both of the optional actions (in the indicated
order). Then, you must perform one mandatory action.
Optional Actions
1 - Use a Privilege
Return 1 or more Privileges to their place above the board. For each Privilege returned, take
1 Gem or Pearl token of your choice from the board. This action cannot be used to take a
Gold token.
Your tokens must be visible to your opponent at all times. We recommend sorting them in
piles by color.
PLAYER TURN
GAME OVERVIEW
2 - Replenish the Game Board
You cannot perform this action if the bag is empty. Mix the tokens in the
bag and place them on empty spaces, starting with the central space and
following the printed spiral until the bag is empty. Then, your opponent
takes 1 Privilege.
Important: During the game, when you must take a Privilege, and there are none left
above the board, take 1 from your opponent. If you already have all 3 Privileges,
nothing happens.
5
or
Examples: You can take any one of the groups of tokens highlighted in green.
Conversely, you cannot take any of the groups of tokens highlighted in red: there is
a Gold token interrupting the vertical group, and an empty space interrupting the
horizontal one.
 If you use this action to take 3 tokens of the same color
or 2 Pearls, your opponent takes 1 Privilege.
Mandatory Action
You must perform one of the following three actions:
Take up to 3 tokens
Take 1 Gold token and reserve 1 Jewel card
Purchase 1 Jewel card
Special case: If you cannot perform any of the mandatory actions, you must perform the
“Replenish the Game Board” optional action before choosing your mandatory
action.
Take up to 3 tokens
 Take up to 3 adjacent Gem and/or Pearl tokens from the board. The tokens must be in an
uninterrupted horizontal, vertical, or diagonal line. You can take 2 adjacent tokens or
even a single token. This action cannot be used to take a Gold token. 
6
Take 1 Gold token and reserve 1 Jewel card
You cannot perform this action if there are no Gold tokens on the board, or if you
already have 3 reserved cards.
First, take 1 Gold token of your choice from the board. Then, you must either:
Take 1 Jewel card of your choice from the pyramid
OR
Draw the top card from one of the 3 decks (  ;  ; ).
You cannot have more than 3 reserved cards. Keep your reserved cards secret from
your opponent (either facedown in front of you, or in your hand). You may look at your
reserved cards at any time.
This action is the only way to take a Gold token. Reserved cards, like cards in the
pyramid, have no effect until they are purchased. There is no penalty for having
reserved cards at the end of the game.
When you reserve a card from the pyramid, replace it with a new card from the corresponding deck, placing it faceup in the pyramid. If the corresponding deck is empty, the
card is not replaced.
 Purchase 1 Jewel card
Choose a card from the pyramid or your reserve, pay its cost in tokens (as depicted on
the bottom left of the card), and place that card faceup in front of you.
Gold tokens are wild and can be used in place of any Gem or Pearl token.
Place spent tokens in the bag.
Once purchased, a Jewel card
grants you its bonus(es), depicted on the top right. Each bonus
decreases the cost of future
card purchases.
For example, by purchasing the
card on the right, you reduce the
cost of all of your future purchases
by 1 green token.
Some Jewel cards have 2 bonuses,
thereby granting a 2 token
reduction.
Prestige
points
Ability
Bonus
Cost
7
It is possible to have enough bonuses to reduce the cost of a card to 0 tokens. The cost of a
card may not be reduced below 0, meaning you cannot gain tokens when purchasing cards.
There are no Pearl bonuses.
Organize the cards you purchase in front of you, sorted by bonus color. Cards may be
overlapped to save space. However, the top of the card (where points, Crowns, and
bonuses are depicted) must remain visible.
When you purchase a card from the pyramid, replace it with a new card from the
corresponding deck, placing it faceup in the pyramid.
Example: Julie has 6 bonuses (3 red, 2 blue, and 1 green). She wants to buy
the white card, which costs 3 blue, 5 red, 3 black, and 1 Pearl. Thanks to her
bonuses, she only needs to pay 1 blue, 2 red, 3 black, and 1 Pearl to purchase the
white card. She returns the spent tokens to the bag.
8
If the card you just purchased has an ability, resolve that effect now.
 : Take another turn immediately after this one ends.
 : Place this card so that it overlaps a Jewel card with a bonus (see on the
right). Treat this card’s bonus as though it were the same color of
the card it is overlapping.
If you do not have a card with a bonus, you cannot purchase this card.
 : Take 1 token matching the color of this card from the board.
If there are no such tokens left, ignore this effect.
 : Take 1 Privilege. If none are available, take 1 from your opponent.
 : Take 1 Gem or Pearl token from your opponent. If your opponent has no such tokens,
ignore this effect. You cannot take a Gold token from your opponent.
The top of some Jewel cards depict 1 or more Crowns.
Upon acquiring your 3rd Crown, take 1 of the available
Royal cards and resolve its ability.
Upon acquiring your 6th Crown, take 1 of the available
Royal cards and resolve its ability.
Taking a Royal card is not an action. Place your Royal
cards next to your Jewel cards.
Requirement
CARD ABILITIES
CROWNS
9
Once you have completed your mandatory action, count your tokens (Gems, Pearls, and
Gold). If you have more than 10 tokens in total, you must discard down to 10 tokens. Choose
which ones to discard and return them to the bag.
Finally, check if you have fulfilled any of the three victory conditions. If you have, you win!
If not, your opponent’s turn begins.
If you fulfill one or more of the victory conditions at the end of your turn, the game ends
immediately.
1 If you have 20 or more Prestige
points, you win!
2 If you have 10 or more Crowns,
you win!
3 If you have 10 or more Prestige
points on cards of the same
color, you win! A card is
considered to be of the same
color as the cards it is grouped
with (see the example on the right).
1 2 3
END OF PLAYER TURN
VICTORY CONDITIONS
Example: By purchasing the white card, Julie acquires her 3rd Crown,
which allows her to take one of the available Royal cards. The card she
takes grants her 1 Privilege and 2 Prestige points.
10
Choose the first player at random: their opponent takes 1 Privilege.
When you must take a Privilege, but none are available, take 1 from your opponent instead.
Gold tokens are wild and can be used in place of any Gem or Pearl token.
“Take 1 Gold token and reserve 1 Jewel card” is the only way to gain a Gold token.
You cannot perform the “Take 1 Gold token and reserve 1 Jewel card” action if there are no
Gold tokens on the board or you already have 3 reserved cards.
There is no penalty for having reserved cards at the end of the game.
If you don’t have a card with a bonus, you cannot purchase a card.
You can have more than 10 tokens during your turn, but must discard tokens in excess of
10 at the end of your turn.
When you fulfill one or more of the three victory conditions, the game ends immediately
and you win!
Of Italian nationality, Davide Tosello was born in 1978 and has always
been attracted to drawing. Thanks to his various collaborations,
he has had the opportunity to create this precise style, which has
made him one of the most consummate artists. From sketching, to drawing and coloring, he never neglects any aspect of his
work. He is a perfectionist. His style, fresh and modern, quickly
attracted the attention of the international market. He moved
from the world of video games to that of board games, which he
approached with the utmost professional maturity. He has worked
on many prestigious projects, including Orbis (SPACE Cowboys), Victorian Masterminds, Fairy Tale Inn, and Sheriff of Nottingham 2nd edition
(CoolMiniOrNot).
He is the writer, cartoonist, and colorist of the “BLUE in the Land of Dreams” trilogy,
published in France by Éditions Glénat/Vent d’Ouest, translated and distributed in Italy
in 2020 (“BLUE nella Terra dei Sogni” - Edizioni Star Comics). So, of course, one can only
wonder what Davide Tosello is up to when he is not working. It’s simple! He tries to sort
through the thousand and one stories on which he would like to work.
REMINDERS
DAVIDE TOSELLO
11
Splendor Duel is published by Asmodee Group - SPACE Cowboys
47 rue de l’Est, 92100 Boulogne-Billancourt - France
© 2022 SPACE Cowboys. All rights reserved.
Edited by Adam Marostica.
Rulebook Consultancy: Paul Grogan .
Get the latest news about Splendor Duel and SPACE Cowboys
at www.spacecowboys.fr, SpaceCowboysFR,
 space_cowboys_officiel, and SpaceCowboys1.
HELP
This product has been manufactured
with all possible care. However, if you
encounter a problem with your game,
please contact our Customer Service at
support@asmodee.com. Your problem
will be solved in a timely manner.
I have been passionate about games since my earliest childhood, and
discovered the pleasure of designing or, rather, tweaking games
from the age of 14. This was the best way I found to express my
creativity. However, it took me several decades to really get involved in game design. Finally, in 2014, the success of Splendor
made me a professional game designer. Splendor Duel is the
latest addition to the Splendor line of games, after the Cities
of Splendor and Splendor Marvel expansions. To benefit from
another designer’s experience, one who is particularly fond of
two-player games, I invited my friend Bruno Cathala to join me on this
beautiful adventure. I thank Bruno for his ideas and unwavering enthusiasm. I would also like to thank François Doucet and Maxence Falempin of the SPACE Cowboys studio for their attentiveness and support throughout Splendor Duel’s development.
And finally, I am grateful to the players around the world who share their passion with enthusiasm. It is to them that I dedicate this work.
2002: Publication of my first games - Hey, those were two-player
games!
2022: Publication of Splendor Duel (Thank you, Marc, for your
invitation) - Hey, another two-player game!
20 years of playful creations, doubts, and hopes, with a single
leitmotif: always following my desires and passion. Working on
THE game I want to play right now and then trying to share it
with as many people as possible.
And it didn’t go too badly for me (Mr. Jack, Shadows over Camelot,
Cyclades, Five Tribes, Kingdomino, 7 Wonders Duel, just to name a few).
BRUNO CATHALA
MARC ANDRÉ
1 - Optional Actions:
Spend 1 Privilege: take 1 non-Gold token.
Replenish the board’s empty spaces. Your opponent takes 1 Privilege.
2 - One of the following Mandatory Actions
Take up to 3 adjacent non-Gold tokens in an uninterrupted
row, column, or diagonal. If the 3 tokens are identical or 2
of them are Pearls, your opponent takes 1 Privilege.
Take 1 Gold token, then reserve 1 card. You cannot perform this action if there are no
Gold tokens on the board or if you have 3 reserved cards.
Purchase 1 card from the pyramid or 1 reserved card: pay the cost, minus bonuses
already acquired.
3 - Upon gaining a new card, resolve its ability, if any.
 Take another turn. Take 1 Privilege.
Take a token matching the color of
this card from the board.
Take 1 non-Gold token from your
opponent.
Copy the color of a previously
acquired bonus.
4 - 3rd or 6th Crown: take 1 Royal card.
5 - 10-token limit between turns.
6 - End of the game and victory 20 Prestige points OR
 10 Crowns OR
 10 Prestige points on cards
of the same color.
PLAYER AID
or